paragraph 1:
what is parkinson's disease?
what are the symptoms of this disease?
what are the brief effects these symptoms have on everyday life?
what is wbv?
which subset of these symptoms is this technique trying to address?
----
Neurons or the nerve cells are the basic functional units in the brain. The vast network of these cells underlie the sophisticated behaviours we see in humans and other animals. The Neurodegenerative diseases refer to a class of conditions that are characterized by progressive loss of neurons in the brain. Parkinson's disease is one of the most common neurodegenerative diseases. Some of the physical symptoms resulting from this disorder include tremors and rigidity which may lead to slow movements, difficulty maintaining body posture, and other motor impairments. Psychological effects include sleep disturbances, anxiety, depression, panic attacks, and pain. Whole body vibration is a potential rehabilitation treatment that aims to address the significant loss of muscle strength commonly found in patients with parkinson's disease. In this information "sheet", I will briefly discuss the effectiveness of this technique in treating the common symptoms found in individuals with parkinson's.
----
paragraph 2:
what constitutes motor impairments?
what are some of the things that people with motor impairments deal with in everyday life?
how does it progress over lifetime?
how well does wbv solve this problem?
limitations in the findings?

----
One of the classic symptoms shown by patients with this disorder is the impairment of motor capabilities. This can be measured in terms of tremors, muscle rigidity, and slowness of movement. It therefore comes with no surprise that PD patients deal with reduced quality of life due to higher fall frequency and increased risk of fatal accidents. Based on the studies by Hass et al and King et al, signigicant reductions in tremors and rigidity  were found in patients after a single session of whole body vibration compared to the control group that did not recieve any treatment. However the results of long term treatment of this technique investigated by Ebersbach et al and Arias et al do not seem very promising. The former team found that the patients that went through three and four weeks of WBV treatment did not do show any improvements compared to the patients in the control group. The other team found that patients that went through multiple sessions of WBV showed results comparable to those that performed conventional exercises. These results lead to the conclusion that WBV treatment at best only has temporary therapeutic effects in regards to motor impairments.
----
Paragraph 3:
what is balance?
how is it important in everyday life?
how are PD patients effected in this aspect?
how well does wbv address this?
limitations?
----
Another factor that contributes to falls in patients in parkinson's disease is postural instability. Balance refers to one's ability to maintain his/her body's center of gravity with respect to the surface they are standing on. The ability to maintain posture is vital to performing many  activities in life. Since WBV aims to improve overall motor effectiveness, it is fair to ask if it also improves posture. As with the previous results, the findings are quite conflicting. Turbanski et al found that patients showed a significant improvement in the performance of tandem stance test after being treated with WBV for one session. Tandem stance is when a person places one foot directly in front of the other. It is a way for clinicians to measure balance in an individual. However, in the same study, the postural measurements when the patients were asked to stand with their feet side by side did not improve. Similarly, the results from Ebersbach et al and Arias et al showed that WBV have not been able to improve posture in parkinson's patients. These findings thus suggest that further studies must be performed before recommending WBV as a viable treatment for postural instability.
----
Paragraph 4 and closure:
The effects of WBV on mobility tasks and proprioception was also investigated. More specifically, King et al studied whether a brief WBV session would improve the gait speed. They found that while a brief WBV session had no significant effect on step length, the patients showed increased step length after the resting period of the study. Another aspect of study was proprioception which is our ability to know where our limbs and body parts relative to others and the outside world. Haas et al found that participants that underwent WBV treatment did not do any better in the test that involved repetitive extension of the knees compared to the control. Based on all the above findings from different studies, it is fair to say that the idea of WBV as a viable treatment is still in an early state.
